---
toc: true
layout: post
description: 5.5 and 5.6 big idea blog
title: 5.5 and 5.6 big idea blog
categories: [markdown, csp]
permalink: /csp/bigideablogforweek21/
---

# Big Idea 5.5
1. When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.
   1. During this Tech Talk, we will be discussing three license types: the Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal, the Open Source MIT License, and the Open Source GPL License. The Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal license offers public use without the possibility of copyrighting. The Open Source MIT License permits distribution of closed source materials and requires credit to be given to the original creator. Finally, the Open Source GPL License gives the owner complete control over the project, but prohibits the distribution of closed source components.
2. In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.
   1. In my opinion, we should adopt the Open Source GPL License for our GitHub projects. This ensures that we are both legally and ethically crediting the owners of any source code we utilize. Similar to how music and movie companies protect their digital content through Digital Rights Management to prevent piracy and regulate ownership, it's important for us to use Creative Commons software for educational purposes, as it is freely available for all to use. While open source code is often free, businesses may choose not to make their licenses open source. However, they still rely on access to open source code to be successful.
3. Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.
   1. For my own personal blog I made my repository a Open Source GPL license. We also made the license for the group repository a Open Source GPL License. We chose this license because it allows our code to be open for anyone’s use but it doesn’t allow anyone to distribute our closed sources of the code.

# Big Idea 5.6
1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles
   1. The PII I have seen on project in CSP is that we know each other’s names, emails, photos, education, and addresses and phone numbers. I have seen these on project in CSP because we display it on our github projects.
2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?
   1. I believe it is important to be mindful of the personal information we put online, particularly with regards to Personally Identifiable Information (PII). While it may be acceptable to share our names and email addresses, it is crucial to avoid sharing private and sensitive information such as Social Security numbers, passwords, and other confidential details. However, it is also important to recognize the benefits that PII can bring to companies, as they can use this information to tailor their websites to our interests and preferences, potentially increasing their popularity and success.
3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.
   1. A strong password should consist of a mix of uppercase and lowercase letters, numbers, symbols, and punctuation. On the other hand, a weak password may be easily guessable and may include full words, commonly used passwords, pet names, and personal information. To enhance security, it's advisable to use two-factor authentication, which requires access to two separate devices in order to log into an account.
4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.
   1. I think that Symmetric encryption is where one secret key encrypts and decrypts the information. Asymmetric encryption uses two keys, a public and private to encrypt and decrypt the information.
5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.
   1. One example is SSL encryption. And this uses both the symmetric and the asymmetric encryption.
6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.
   1. I have not learned the hard way with a phishing scheme because most of the phishing emails I receive go to the spam. But when I do see one, I read the email and see that it is a phishing scam. On instagram I see this very often as many accounts get hacked and end up sending me links and files. Usually these work by pretending to be a company or something that they are not.
